i hope you guys enjoy the episode
brought to you by our sponsor blinkist
go to blinkist.com
impact theory to get 25 off a blinkist
premium membership and a seven-day free
trial all right enjoy the episode
hey everybody we just hit a major
milestone we crossed two
million subscribers on youtube we
obviously could not have done it without
you guys this amazing community which
has been there for us from day one and
speaking of day one hitting this
milestone made us all think about our
very first guest ever the extraordinary
michael strahan and to honor the
crossing of the two million mark we're
gonna re-air the episode where michael
and i talk about how to build a winning
mindset how to cultivate real happiness
in your life and how to always and i
mean always do the work all right
without further ado i bring you nfl hall
of famer and host of good morning
america the one the only michael strahan
thank you for having me oh yeah how have
you been oh i've been great
busy
we're good really you a little bit
how often do you go back and forth coast
to coast every weekend
from september
through basically february to super bowl
every time i get on a plane and i have
to fly like two and a half hours and
it's 30 minutes delay and i'm all pissed
off i think strahan is doing this
literally every weekend that's but it's
good for me because to be honest with
you it's the most quiet
peaceful
six hours coming this way of my week
right so if i if i want to be on the
phone if i want to do email if i want to
you know do that i can but if not if i
want to take a nap which is mostly what
i do
then i can do that but that's why i
don't complain too because
my father worked really hard
and
if my biggest complaint is being on an
airplane and sleeping right then i got a
problem if i'm complaining about that so
i keep everything in check by thinking
back to how hard and how realistic life
is
and how you know i've been very
fortunate i don't take it for granted
yeah you're super thoughtful like you
really think about
like pretty deeply i mean you go into
you go into some depth about like um the
neurochemical cascades and how to
manipulate them and life philosophies
and very specifically like not just
because you've got this concept from
your dad i believe of it's not if it's
when yeah
which okay most people leave it at the
platitude but you went a lot deeper than
that what does like walk us through that
philosophy how do you bridge the gap
from if to when i think i actually got
that from my dad without even knowing i
don't even know if he knew what he was
doing you know my dad
i think it it is he's just a hard
driving person he grew up with nothing
in the backwoods of texas and weirgate
texas i don't even know if the town
exists anymore and he decided to leave
and he went to the army
and just enlisted
and he was a soldier for 12 years and he
realized i can't be what i want to be i
can't be an officer i can't really
advance without an education he got out
of the army
after 12 years had five kids and me on
the way went to prairie view university
and went into the rotc program they
called him old man you can't do this you
can't do that and he graduated magna
laude of the other rotc class
and so i can't tell him what i can't do
right because he's been in a lot tougher
situations and he's done it and i just
remember as a kid just being working out
and doing all those things with him
because there was a i started to work
out when i was 13 and a little chunky
and my brothers called me bob which is
of course you read that in the book bob
which meant booty on back
and they would say you can grab your
wallet over your shoulder you don't have
to reach behind you and it hurt me man
i'm 13 years old i was crushed i'm the
youngest of sick the young in the
youngest of four boys
and
i bought the jane fonda workout book
and i started doing the you know the the
leg lifts and the butt kicks my dad saw
that and he said hey we can go to the
gym
and he would read muscle and fitness
magazines and all these
workout magazines and he would write out
programs and we'd go to the gym you have
to write how many reps and how much
weight and he kept the meticulous log of
things and i didn't always want to be
there not sure but he could tell
and i don't know what it was when you
tell a 13 14 15 year old kid that we did
it until i went off to college
was
hanging there to pay off one day
now he's telling this to me and i'm
living in germany right not like i'm in
the states and i play football and it's
like oh next year you're gonna have a
great football season and then you can
get a scholarship it was
just hang in there son it'll pay off one
day right
and years later
he woke up and said hey
i think you're good enough to play
football i think you can get a football
scholarship this is all in germany
that's what's weird it's not like you're
playing every day and you know really
around it you know i would watch it but
i didn't play i didn't really know all
the nuances or any of the techniques or
anything about the game and he just said
hey you can do it you're going to go to
houston you're going to stay with your
uncle you're going to get a football
scholarship
and being
i guess naive i said okay little bit
okay fine
on the plane i go jump see my uncle
stayed with my uncle for five months
played one year football high school at
westbury high school in houston got one
scholarship to texas southern university
didn't care where it was
admission was accomplished
and
i went back to germany that december and
i graduated high school over there
and my dad never told me if he never
doubted me said you're going to do this
you can do that
from a kid until we won the super bowl
until you know all these things that are
happening now he's never doubted me and
i don't know if it was by design i don't
know if he sent me to houston because he
just was too cheap to pay for
college it worked out and my mentality
and now i have adopted that for myself
and with my my kids
it's not if you really want something
bad enough right it's not going to be
easy
and you can see where you want to go but
there are so many things you're going to
have to go through to get there but
truly if you focus and know where you
want to end up you'll be there it may
not be exact time you want which is now
kind of immediate for most people but
you'll eventually get there at your time
when you're supposed to yeah that it's
such a powerful belief and you talk a
lot about that in the book and and so i
judge books in a very critical fashion
which is either the information is
usable or it's not and then if it's
usable if i do it will it work or not
your book is both usable meaning there's
clear very action oriented steps it's
not just like an autobiography it's like
hey do this and this is what i did
if people do what you say in the book it
will actually work like it's really
incredible advice and it has fantastic
backing in your understanding of the
brain and all of that it's you make
decisions it's up to you
you know you make choices in your life
you program your mind neither be happy
or not that's a choice that you make
it's not something that somebody else
makes for you is not not even your
situation no matter what the situation
you truly do make the choice to be happy
in that situation or not and we also
have the ability to change a situation
that we're not happy with talk a little
bit about that because if for anybody
that doesn't know the sort of legendary
beef that you had with the final coach
at the giants
it's such a powerful thing and what i'm
talking about specifically is is that
you've switched right so you come in hot
you guys are we hated heads yeah but
then in the end you said that if you
were going to go back he's the only one
that you'd go back and play for yeah i
absolutely hated tom coughlin
and
not long ago i was at the giants monday
night game to induct him into the ring
of honor which was like amazing for me
because this is a guy
i went to my first meeting with him and
i had been in the nfl for 11 12 years
my first meeting with the guy
and i felt as if he was dismissive
and
as if i hadn't accomplished anything
and pretty much listen to me and you can
do something with your life kid
i was thinking okay i kind of done some
things already but i felt disrespected
and slighted
and i i went home and i said i'm playing
one year with this guy because i have to
now i'm right too late
but i'm not going to play after this i
can't stay here with this guy i won't do
it he already had a bad reputation
around the league has been a really
tough coach and he was if your socks
weren't pulled up high enough you're
gonna find
if you had blue sleeves on instead of
gray sleeves that day you get a fine
right if you're not five minutes early
to a meeting it gets fine i'm like dude
if the meeting's at 7 55 just tell me
that don't tell me eight and i get to 7
57 and i'm late but it was just we were
butting heads and not just with me but
with all the players but being that i
was a senior leader they would come to
me and i would talk to him
hey coach and he would just go i hear
you i hear you i hear you
and it came to a head
after he fined me for being three
minutes early to a meeting we had a
heated discussion to the point where he
was like um
you know what
it is what it is and i said coach we
just had this discussion
well you shouldn't cut it so close i
said coach
i'm not cutting it close he goes well
next time you're lucky i could have
fined you more and when he said that
it it just that's when the football
player's side went
and and i heard you say
so i'm gonna curse
i'm gonna tell you what i said to him
and i said okay that's fine you find me
i ain't about the money anyway it's
about the principal
but you know what it
it you want to find me i'll come in
here when i want to then if i'm going to
be late you're going to find my mother
will show up when i want so i'll go do
some errands then i'll come into this
when i want to and he looked at me
like
and i was surprised because that was
kind of like you know the whole
different side i was usually on the
field and he said you can't talk to me
like that and i said yes i can he said
no you can't i said yes i can and you
know why because you don't respect me i
can't respect you and as i come to you
every day with all the problems of the
players and what the god they're feeling
and you always say to me i hear you i
hear you and i said when you say that
you're just dismissing me and you think
i don't realize that you're dismissing
me but you're losing this team do you
hear that
and i walked away from it
and ever since that day our relationship
has been like that
it's as if
we're two dogs circling around she was
gonna jump on each other we finally got
into a scrum but we came out of it with
an understanding
that we both wanted the same thing and
that was to win once we really
deep looked at it deeply we both wanted
to win
and i was
so
um happy to see him change
to the point where it made me change and
realize that if you both had the same
objectives
you just have to find a way to make it
work to get there
he loosened up his stance with the
players
we loosened up our stance with his rules
as far as we were more attentive to them
and guys felt like we weren't fighting
against the rules we were fighting the
opponent on the field where before we
were fighting his rules instead of
focusing on who we were playing that
week
and he became a coach who would come in
and tell jokes and give you a hug and
tell you he loved you
and before he was not that guy yeah and
i've heard you tell stories about it was
sort of the inside of seeing him with
other
players kids his own grandkids warner
what the hell kurt warner on the day off
you know the quarterbacks they go and
they pick up the game plan and kurt
warner quarterback at the time went in
to pick up his game plan with his kids
he goes into the quarterback off coaches
office and when he comes out coach
kaufman is on the floor
with his kids outside the office playing
and it's like why don't we as players
see that compassion
that side of you because it's definitely
there we see you with your grandkids
sometimes but
it was amazing to see him
do it
and he learned how to transfer that over
to us as adults and we in in turn learn
how to
you know give him everything because as
a coach the toughest thing and the thing
i loved about playing and the one thing
i love about work and working with a lot
of people
is the leadership aspect
it is the opportunity to get so many
people to believe in one thing that
makes everybody better so that everybody
wins and in order to do that you may you
have to make everybody's have value and
feel valuable i don't care for somebody
who's sweeping the floor or the
president of the company everybody needs
to be treated like a human being with
value and if they are they will do
anything for you
and once he got that down guys would do
anything for him and i was one of those
guys that once i was
into that matrix
anything he needed it would get done and
all the way down to just my belief in us
winning a super bowl and
watching all that happen and and just
the way that we did it and now if i had
to go back and play seriously i would i
wouldn't play for any other coach if he
wanted me to play for him i would play
for him only
it's interesting that you tie it to
compassion so one of the the most
fascinating things about you off camera
which
dear god if you ever get a chance to
spend time with michael ryan
just let me know hit him up on that let
me tell you right now so joe glazer
summed you up really well when he was
doing the hall of fame induction speech
and he said
strahan has a switch and he is one guy
off the field and he's another guy when
he comes out the tunnel
and when he flips that switch he's there
to stomp you
dump you out yes so
hanging out with you you're so warm and
so it is crazy the bear hugs the just
kindness the generosity of spirit
but here's the thing it's one thing to
like people when you're on camera and
everyone is going to distrust that it's
another when you're just you really are
like that and it's from a leadership
perspective it's such a beautiful thing
to open yourself up to that i love your
ritual of going around before the game
and touching everybody yeah that was
important and i actually really want to
start doing that with the team here like
we've got such a group of die-hard
people and it had like in doing so the
whole point to me of the people that i
bring on the show is to bring people the
more i research them the more i get to
know who they are that i'll find these
little nuances that i can bring into my
own life and when i pictured you going
around to everybody and and saying i'm
accountable to you right i'm accountable
to you and when i go out on that field
i'm going to
hold us up i'm going to do what we've
all agreed that we're here to accomplish
and i thought oh my god like that's so
powerful and to have built that trust
and rapport with them ahead of time
where they feel connected to you and
then you say hey i'm here to serve you
right like we're all going to do this
together that's super it's bigger it's
bigger
it was always bigger than me and i had
success on a football field
singular success right you know i've
been defensive player of the year a few
times and it's like
i can't celebrate this or teammate
losing records like there's no i never
found much joy in something that was a
singular success
the best time does anyone ever ask me
what is the best thing from your career
it's like it's a super bowl
it's
everybody being able to celebrate the
accomplishment of us as a team and not
me as an individual and
there is definitely a switch you have to
have
and to me i do love people and and
it's natural for me to be nice to people
i don't know any other way i don't know
why you wouldn't be but it's also has
worked for me because in anything i do i
have to be fake i don't have to be
something i'm not right i don't have to
be nice to you here and then leave and
you see me later on because i've been
around a lot of people like that
and it's as if they're a different
person like i just saw you 10 minutes
ago
who this guy right i never wanted to be
that i always wanted to be myself the
entire time which works great for me i
love psychology of things
that's why i think i love a team i love
getting people on the same page
in the psychology of from football to me
and in the media with football and
simple things you get the game program
every week
and it's the same picture throughout the
whole year of the guys but i had a
ritual i would look at the program i
would look at everybody on my team same
guys and then i would look at the other
teams guys
and when you're a young player you get
intimidated by faces
and some guys sitting there looking like
this
and you're like oh man that guy's a
killer
oh i don't look scared
but as i got older i said it's like
psychologically
if somebody looks like that then they're
you know then okay
but how much more afraid would you be if
somebody you know with a kill and they
just smile
so in my program fidget i'd be like this
it looked like a glamorous shot like it
looked like i went to the mall and it
was like this is the guy
this must be crazy to be smiling these
photos like this
and and so like i would just do a little
silly things like that with the media i
didn't talk every day until then i said
i talk one day a week i talk thursdays
and i did it because if you talk all the
time it's like going to the same
restaurant
it's not special and especially in the
media of new york when there are so many
different people and so many um outlets
and everybody just there's so much
content you need yours to stand out
so if you want to talk to me and you
only get me one day a week i guarantee
when i talk to you you're going to
cherish that and you're going to use
that
and i would mix it up on the media as
well as they would give me a hard time i
give them a hard time
one question today
i'm not in a bad mood but i just like
give me one question asked me one answer
they asked me a second i said you hear
what i said i said one i'm sorry i gotta
go right then other days i sit there and
i would chat how your wife doing you
know everything's good and i would just
mix them up keep them off their off off
balance a little bit and i just
enjoyed the psychological battle of
football i enjoyed the psychological
battle of the media and and in a lot of
ways now
it's not quite the same but
i still like that aspect of
psychologically getting everybody on the
same page to be successful
yeah there's some pretty uh incredible
footage of you getting
well let's talk psychological warfare
and then getting everybody on the same
page so one
the trash talking that you did when you
would tackle people was
absolutely fantastic welcome home baby
yeah
there were some great ones but then
what you did in the super bowl was
really really crazy and i want to hear
what was the the psychological principle
at work so you the team is losing but
you gather everybody on the sideline and
you say you're losing at the moment i
think it was 10 to 14. yeah to the
undefeated champions coming into this
game and you say with like very little
time left guys we're one drive away
we're going to win 17 to 14. that's
going to be the final score if you
believe it it's going to happen yeah
gene strahad my dad that's crazy it was
it was weird
because by the way that was the end
score that was the end score
against an undefeated team
18-0 at that point and had beaten us
early in the season
and i i just
my dad that that week in phoenix
he said you know what you guys have
already won the game
and i was like i think old man's losing
it what's he talking about
you guys have already won the game now
you just have to go through the
formalities but trust me you've already
won the game and i'm thinking have you
seen the patriots
have you seen their record they said
good they are that's tom brady and randy
moss junior sayo like all these
phenomenal um hall of fame players over
there and
we got to the point in that game where
there are just several things that come
to mind
bill belichick is a brilliant coach
probably the best coach ever to to coach
professional football and
we had a fourth down
they had to punt he rushes the punt team
out there they run a punt we didn't get
all our guys off the field in time so it
gives them a first down in our territory
and field goal position and everything
else
and tom coughlin's losing it you know
he's beat ready screaming on the
sideline and i i just had such a peace
during that game so he tells this story
um all the time he said you reached over
and you grabbed me by my shoulders
before you ran out on the field
and you smiled and said coach don't
worry we got it and we go out i actually
got a sack that's a sack i got on that
drive moved them out of field co
position they didn't score any points
and that was just like the peacefulness
of the game so when we came to that
point in the fourth quarter where they
scored
uh and when they went up 14-10
it was like you know what
if dad said we're gonna win damn it
we're gonna win
now i'm not on offense i can't do
anything about it but
i'm gonna go over here and talk to the
guys who can
and we're in this together our our
journey to get there has been too great
to end like this
i mean we're here for a reason there's
something special about us being here
because we were not supposed to be here
and i went on and said 17 14 fellows
will be the final score believe it and
it will happen one touchdown will work
we'll be world champion believe it and
it will happen
and
we won 17 to 14 and
i
retired
after that
what i love about stories like that
from someone who has built their career
around hard work discipline watching
more tape putting more hours running the
stairs more often
is that the
lurking behind the believe it and it
will happen is um
[Music]
psychological principle for lack of
better word right so it's
what are the things that you do on a
regular basis from a routine perspective
to
build that mindset to know that you've
put in the work that you're able to
execute
and essentially not get in your own way
you know i think i think we doubt
ourselves more than anybody else ever
doubts us so and i fight that too i
fight that every day especially you know
these new jobs and businesses that i've
never
um
thought that i would be in and never
knew i could be and i was supposed to or
could be any good at
and i i think the thing the routines
that i have my mama routines are very
simple
i find out what the job is
and i bust my ass to get it done
everyone there's no way to build an
empowering mindset or get ahead in
business without constantly learning and
accessing new information and today i
want to share with you guys my secret
weapon in the battle to learn new things
and get ahead blinkist blinkist is for
anyone who cares about learning but
doesn't have a lot of time blinkist
takes the key ideas and insights from
over 4 000 non-fiction bestsellers in
more than 27 categories and gathers them
together in 15-minute text and audio
explainers that help you understand more
about the core ideas use the blinks to
get into a topic quickly find new topics
to grow from or figure out which books
you want to spend more time reading and
listening to more deeply
also they've teamed up with popular
podcast creators to blink those for you
too so you can get to the heart of a
podcast episode fast you can use
blinkist's shortcast to quickly catch up
on podcast episodes you've missed with
high quality audio you can jump right in
on the go during your commute at the gym
around the house or even download to
listen offline
15 million people are already using
blinkist to broaden their knowledge in
27 non-fiction categories including
self-improvement personal growth
management leadership and mindfulness
and happiness two books from their
library that i've listened to and highly
recommend are start with why by simon
sinek and the power of habit by charles
duhigg right now blinkist has a special
offer just for our audience go to
blinkist.com
impact theory to start your free 7-day
trial and get 25 off a blinkist premium
membership that's spelled
b-l-i-n-k-i-s-t
blinkist dot com slash impact theory to
get 25 off a blinkist premium membership
and a seven day free trial all right
guys take care and be legendary
and
it's not half the stuff is not that
complicated
for for gma i understand that i need to
read
i need to read a lot i need to know what
i'm talking about before i open my mouth
and
it's something great about that because
it's challenged me in a way that i
haven't been challenged at live i didn't
have to do that
live i could take two minutes to read
the questions that i'm gonna ask the
guests and then the rest of it was
personality driven
so i could get away with just you know
being there and just being you know i
guess
joyful and entertaining well gma
requires some of that but it requires
for you to have some knowledge on
different things and that's what i love
about it it takes me back to be honest
with you to football
it relates to football to me because not
growing up playing
i was still learning my 15th and final
season right i never got bored with the
game
and that's how i feel about gma i don't
think i'll ever get bored because every
day is so different
and every day of the challenge and so
for me it's about just studying and
knowing what my job is and knowing what
my job description is and knowing what
i'm
what i can bring to the equation
and the toughest thing you know going to
gma for me was figuring that out because
you have george you have robin you have
amy you have lara and you have people
who have been established on a show that
has been established for a long time and
how does my personality fit in so it's
been like you know running into wall
here and there until i can find okay i
fit into that slot now let me find the
next one and it's a work in progress you
know i work
every day
you know the wheels are spinning in my
head as i'm sitting there with the
camera on my face that i'm talking about
how to be myself within a situation that
you usually don't have a chance to
inject personality into but that's what
they want
and but it's been it's been a challenge
but it's been fun it's been exciting
and i wake up every day and i love being
there and i love
making the people around me happy that
i'm there that's important to me too
yeah that was really neat so going from
part-time to full-time you do the first
day and i remember one of the first
things they said to you
i forget who said it but she said you
know we're all looking forward to our
morning kiss on the cheek and she said
it so warmly it was like for a second
she was not a tv personality she was
your friend and she was super stoked
that it was like gonna be you know this
like slumber party every day that you
guys were gonna get to be able to hang
out and i thought wow that's so cool
that you're able to have that and i'm a
routine person
i if i take my wallet out of my pants at
night i know where i put it that way i
know it's there like i thought oh
where's my wallet where are my keys i'm
not that guy but i'm also a routine
person in terms of
when i go to work like good morning very
simple words not hard
i'm joyful and happy to be there i'm
gonna be the same i'm gonna good morning
i
talk to this
everybody and certain people i know
they're the connection when you get you
know good morning shake somebody hand
you give or you walk by and you give him
a tap on the shoulder like those things
are important because when i was a kid i
was washing dishes
i was cutting grass i was a mover
and you were unseen
you were very unseen and unappreciated
and in some in some ways
talk to us if you
weren't you know not only saying we
weren't human but you just were
below a level below and and that has
always bothered me and to this day it
bothers me to think about that because i
remember when that was happening
thinking to myself
you think this is where i'm going to be
right this is just what i got to do now
to get where i'm going
and i didn't necessarily know where i
was going but i knew it was not going to
be there
and so it's very important that when i
walk in as one particular security guard
who
you know he just every time you walk in
he just
and now good morning how you doing hey
bud
have a good day everything else and now
when i walk in hey michael how you doing
like it totally changed and i see his
he's happy when i walk around that
corner and just because he feels
valuable man and that's so important to
me because you get so much more out of
yourself and so much more out of people
because you're in an environment you
create it right you created happiness
because you want to be happy you want to
be around happy people
and sometimes it's you got to you know
you got gotta bang your head against the
wall to make it happen but you have to
be consistent with it and you have to be
persistent with it and if you are then
people come around to that and then
people can trust you because they know
what they're gonna get
one of the worst things is to be
unpredictable in terms of your emotion
or the way that you approach people
mm-hmm because that makes people you
know i don't know what i'm going to do
never want to be that guy i want to be
the guy you know what you're going to
get
unless you were a reporter when i was a
player
but you know what you're going to get
and you know what you're going to get is
going to be genuine right it's going to
be honest it's going to be real it's
going to be sincere
and you're going to get everything i
have to make this work and and
in some ways i'm a perfectionist at work
if i mess up one word or not think of
something i'll go i don't watch myself
on tv for that reason
half the time it bothers me
could say oh that was great i'll go
damn i missed that yeah i see that's
gonna know exactly
so going back to what you're saying
about creating happiness which is an
incredibly
really really important concept that i
hope everybody is listening to
um
once you understand it's a creation once
you understand its neural chemistry once
you understand that that's something
that you can craft and control
everything in your life changes yeah
once you realize that that it's all a
construct right that you uh can shape it
then you realize that you're awake in
the matrix and that was the first thing
that you and i connected over when we
first met
and i don't even remember why i brought
it up i guess because i'm so obsessed
with the matrix i bring it up to
everybody but i'm literally wearing this
shirt in your honor uh the matrix was
the doctor that was my movie man you
said it impacted your phone
god did it ever it was weird
that movie everybody watched it they
talk about how great it was and i'm one
of these guys you tell me how great
everything is uh
it can't be that good and i wait
so i didn't see it until it was on like
one of these cable channels
and i'm watching it and
that point
where
he he gets shot
and you think he's dead and then she
believes in him and she kisses him and
he comes back and then mr smith turned
around and they shoot at him again he
goes no yeah
a stop whatever and he takes the bullet
and then he
and lauren fitzpan goes he is the one
he believed in himself
he didn't limit himself he limited
himself up until that point and
i used to think oh i get a sack oh i got
a sack okay oh that's good i don't know
if i can get another stack oh man
get two or i don't know if i can get
three and i started why can't i get why
say one is enough why why am i limiting
myself and anything i do and as the
football player changed me i set the
sack record
i didn't have a sack the first three
games of that season so to get all those
sacks within
13 games
it's incredible which i look back and go
holy smoke but it was
i don't know i just would go and go and
i didn't say okay michael that's good
enough it was like okay michael you got
one go get two go get another one and go
get another one and
that movie taught just truly that moment
it was like i see it now and i smile
because it just makes me realize we
limit ourselves and why yes
you hold yourself back when there's no
reason to hold yourself back because
there is no reason as a friend of mine
told me mike he said michael there's no
reason that a
black man
with a gap tooth in his mouth who can't
say the letter s without spitting on
people should be on tv talking for a
living
and he's 100 right so i have proven that
the matrix works
anything is possible
that's awesome that's your version of
you know stopping the bullets yeah i
like that i was watching that clip today
i was thinking about you i was thinking
about the matrix and i put that clip on
where he says are you telling me i can
dodge bullets
no neo when you're ready
you won't have to oh like that that
i know what a nerd i am like i totally
get that but like i geek out to the
and the funny thing it gives me chills
you say that it's like oh you're
breaking it oh yeah as you were saying
it me as well and the funny thing is so
people look at you and they think
oh it must come easy for him it might he
must not um have a problem in social
situations you know all that's on the
football field oh he's just a big tough
guy so yeah of course it's easy for him
and the thing that i love about
the i don't think that you can be on
camera and not create a persona right
because you're gonna have to project
something so you're asking yourself what
am i gonna project but i love that you
have clearly made the demand that the
thing you project has to actually be you
and so you're so honest and for someone
like me who has spent so much time like
am i the only one who's afraid of
like what is going on like i have to
overcome this all the time and so people
always say to me like oh you must be
really relaxed in front of the camera
you see i'm like i am literally like
freaking out every time before i do one
of these shows like the 10 minutes
leading up to it thinking god am i going
to be able to pull it off this time or
or is this the one right i imagine doing
that every day yes that's me every day
it really is and the thing is innately
i'm a shy guy i'm still that chubby kid
bob with easy access to the world with
easy access to my wallet and i'm still
that that shy
kid so it's
i do what i do and i love what i do but
the second that is over and i'm like
walking down the street and people going
michael michael it makes me want to curl
up like that 13 year old kid again and i
don't know what it is when i play
football my first i played when i was
seven and eight years old and i was a
good player
and i cried the entire game
and i tell you not just cry ball like
not snot bubble cries like nasty
cries
and the coach would pull me out it was
wrong
nothing
nothing it's because i would make a
tackle i'd make a play and the parents
were clapping yeah and like and i just
oh it made me so uncomfortable
and that's how i get
a little bit when i'm when i'm off
camera and people come up because
oh you did this and you did that and it
makes me feel like
yeah i don't know i don't when football
was over
i
kind of you know i know what i did but i
don't pay attention i have a super bowl
ring
and i pull it out or somebody asks me to
see it but other than that
i forget i have it i know i got it but i
forget physically the ring i know i won
that game
and
it's just weird i don't hang on to stuff
like that
you know i kind of
it's like holding on to the past it's
kind of keeping me from moving and one
day when i decide i don't want to go
forward anymore and i'm done career-wise
then i look back and i go okay well
maybe i'm pretty good that's actually
really interesting and really powerful
for me because i feel exactly the same
way now i may have gotten lucky in this
because my memory is actually really bad
um your memory oh my friend my friend
i'm telling you so and this is this is
one of the like right now you're doing
that thing that people do to you and you
hate so
how how am i able to do this because i
work my ass off because i understand
that my memory is bad
everyone would think like for even me
and i'm knowing you i would think your
memory is fantastic
so let's say i want to remember 10
amazing facts i know i only remember 10
so now i got to read 100 facts
that's literally my life like part of
the reason i read as voraciously as i do
the reason i take notes the reason i
record voice memos the reason that i go
back over this stuff
is because that's what i have to do to
make it usable right so for me it's all
about usability like what is this
company
the aim of this company the aim of the
show is is literally to get people out
of the matrix but you have to understand
what that means getting someone out of
the matrix is simply to get them to stop
saying i got one i guess i can't get two
sacks that's it yeah like once you do
that you're out the limit but you yes
you have to i have chills in my face
just because this like yeah but but
but everyone thinks it's easy everyone
thinks you're not scared and i tell you
and everyone thinks you haven't had
failures which i've had plenty of
failures but i don't look at failure
i've never looked at a failure and said
ugh woe is me oh i don't know i'm just
programmed no it didn't work okay let's
go next thing work harder figure
something else out keep going i'm not
programmed to go it didn't work out and
let me contemplate and feel sorry for
myself and you know and and go over here
and get sympathy
i just i don't know if it's the way i
was brought up or if it's from the
business of football where
it's a win or lose
it's like success or failure
and
if you lose a football game i don't have
time to think about how i lost it and
what i did wrong because
if i'm doing that then the guy i'm
playing next week is getting ahead of me
so i got to worry about what's coming up
next and push for what's next and get
better for what's next not get better
for what's in the not worry about what i
wasn't good enough for in the past right
and i've done sitcom fail um the
business of fail you know you but you
figured out life is about figuring it
out life is not going to be perfect and
if you expect it to be perfect you're
fooling yourself and
a perfect life without a challenge is
not a perfect life it's a boring life
boring do you see the movie um war dogs
oh the gun runners yeah yeah
yeah i did all right there's a great
line in there which they don't intend
this way but when you were talking it
really hit me they say the money is made
between the lines
now in the movie they're talking about
something a little bit different but
when you were saying like i
fail and i think about okay what's next
how do i learn from this you know what's
the pivot how do i move or you know
reinvent yourself um
that's that's the money like if people
want to know how you've had such
astronomical success in so many crazy
different arenas it's that when you said
life is about figuring it out
i was like no one's going to write that
down like people at home and i'm putting
a pin in it so people will write
it down
because once they get that the magic of
michael strahan is that that you take
the time to assess and figure it out
like you were saying with gma and
watching you on gma has been so cool to
see you
really changing from what you were doing
on live with kelly and michael like what
you were calling the it was personality
you know roll up and shine yeah and then
now this i see you and you've talked
about you talk about in the book about i
wanted a challenge and i needed to know
in my
am i saying no to this because i'm
scared because if that's it then i'm
going all in because fear is just
something get over and overcome and
figure out
that dude that to me like yeah the juice
is worth the squeeze right yeah the
juice is worth the squeeze you read that
book
but i definitely michael definitely was
i did more than read that book
i have notes upon notes of that book it
is really powerful thank you that was
blown away so good well you know what
the mission accomplished thing you know
and i i
and i don't know man i you talk about
all accomplishments and stuff but for me
i like i really
haven't done any like much like i feel
like i'm just like starting
i love that
tell me if this is true the reason that
you feel like that is because you're
always looking forward you're not
looking back and you're always putting
yourself in a situation where you're a
little bit sucky
and your goal is to rapidly stop sucking
at that but by the time you're good at
that you're already looking at the next
thing that you're a little bit sucky at
and the cycle repeats right but that's
how you escalate
so when you and i went and we met your
mutual friend or your friend uh who what
he does with homes is
unbelievable yeah it is it is on another
planet and you and i got in the car and
we're like there's levels to this
you know because it was like
what is happening
like we thought we were doing all right
yeah
for this for real
it was it was bonkers but
i felt in that moment such a kindred
spirit to you because i did not look at
that house and go i can't have it i
looked at that house and thought what do
i need to do what's next what situation
now do i have to put myself in like what
is that construct and i think of that
you know going back to the matrix i
think of that in in sort of all aspects
of my life like what's that next thing
and
thinking about what you're doing the
partnership that you have with jcpenney
like
how do you have the guts to kick that
off fashion to to
like true entrepreneurship it's no
longer personality driven like your
stuff's gonna live and die yeah is that
that next phase for you well you you and
i are very similar in that too that i i
don't look at something and think it's
unattainable i look and i go okay i
gotta work a little harder if that's
something i want or something i want to
do and and and jcpenney was the perfect
example is that you know the collection
which is suits and ties and everything
you need to look sharp like you know and
when i'm on gma everything i wear there
fox nfl sunday everything i wear is that
everything the guys on fox nfl sunday
wear is is really my line yeah wow and
um troy aikman and tony gonzalez so it's
really something
but
the reason
it's authentic to me
and i'm involved
so i'm just not a passive yeah those
fabrics you guys do it put a suit out
there stamp my name in it and it's good
oh i look at every swatch of fabric
i'll get every dress shirt
every tie
belts
shoes socks it's exhausting
but it's necessary because i know people
who work really hard with me on that and
i want them to know that i'm as engaged
as they are
and from the marketing of it to who
we're going to pick the model
and adds
um the direction of that but for us we
were so happy because it was a start
it was a start and i think we started
maybe 200 stores just to get a little
feeler i look back now and i think wow
it's only been like a year
but we've been
successful enough that
we
were 500 and then now we're going to 600
a year ahead of schedule and then we
kicked off msx which was like you know
fleeces and casual and like um
athleisure wear so we kicked off a whole
nother line with them now
athleisia it has just completely
evolved into this thing
that is like hey
why not right why can't we it's
authentic to me i don't
do it not wear it i don't do it you
don't see me in it i'm in it every day
so i'd rather
be authentic and everything that i do
and everything that we do at the company
with we do that is authentic to whoever
we're putting into positions including
myself that people can stand behind it
because they know that's really you and
that's important yeah there's so a lot
of entrepreneurs watch the show and
there's two things you said there that i
think are incredibly incredibly
important for entrepreneurs to
understand and that's one that you get
one of the defining characteristics of
being an entrepreneur is dealing with
the mundane and if you believe in what
you're doing enough to fight through the
mundane like if you look at this set if
you knew what we had to do to build this
thing
like it is it is like one tedious thing
after another i i have on pieces of this
that there is actually my blood because
but that's just right that's what you
have to do to make it happen right so
it's not like wait why am i painting
this it's
that's what we have to do why am i
looking at this watch a fabric that's
what you have to do it's like you have
the vision you believe in it enough
you're gonna see it through all the way
to the end and when i was painting i
thought this is the part of being an
entrepreneur that people don't
understand yeah like this is not what
they think they think of it kind of like
fame oh your boy i know we got to
get you out of here but your boy kevin
hart
so
i'm assuming you've seen laughing my
pain yes all right so he has this quote
which i just went to i actually went to
the live concert that's inserted into
that film
he's phenomenal dude phenomenal so i
didn't know i knew him as a comedian
that was it
at the beginning of the the film version
they do that chant everybody wants to be
famous nobody wants to put the work in
yeah everybody wants to be famous nobody
wants to put the work in and i was like
oh my god kevin hart like totally
understands it
so i was blown away and i was like that
guy's gonna last and then you mentioned
him in your book about being a guy who
puts the work in and i thought that's so
true there are two guys the
entertainment who i know put to work in
and i respect them so much it's kevin
and and dwayne johnson the rock yes
because i watch these two and i and i
study these two and their approach to
everything that they do
and it's always joyful
it's always
they have so much energy
and so much conviction about what
they're doing and belief yeah and and
and
i'm feeding off of them even though i'm
in a totally different business because
it keeps me going to the point of where
they'll say man you know you work too
hard i'm like what are you talking about
you guys are working so i think we all
kind of feed off of each other to push
each other even though we're all in in
like different spaces sometimes to be
successful unbeknownst to the other
sometimes
and i think that that is
you got to have role models you have to
have people that you look up to
that that make you push yourself
and make you want to um
be better
and when it comes to business and you
talk about painting on this set and
doing all these things
if you do something
and your name is on it your name is
right there
if it's not successful
who's going to get blamed for it right
you
if it is successful who's going to get
credit for it
you
and i found that if i'm going to get
blamed for something because this
happened before i didn't really put
everything into it i'm pissed that i'm
being blamed for something failing
because i didn't put all the work into
it right but yet for me if i'm getting
all the credit for being successful
and i know i didn't put anything into it
i feel like a fraud right
and and you gotta you gotta put up with
that for yourself and maybe some people
are comfortable with that i'm just not
comfortable with that right so that's
why all the businesses i like to be a
part of because i don't i don't want to
feel like a fraud i want to if someone
asks me about it i want to talk to you
about it i'm real i don't have to make
up some story and then go home and go
you know boy i sure had to lie about
that
it's not a good feeling so if you're
going to get
blamed for failure
accept it hey i put all my i put
everything i had into it it failed
move on to the next but i know i busted
my ass and if you're getting credit and
everybody getting credit for success you
can feel good because you truly have
been a part of that too and and that's
something that keeps me
involved in everything and like i said
those the rock and kevin are like bust
your ass
bust your ass workers man i appreciate
that and okay like you thank you
all right one last question what's the
impact you want to have on the world
i i don't know you know the biggest
thing for me to be honest with you is
just it's like my kids
making them proud
let letting them understand
about
hard work
respect
for not like not now give me respect but
how to respect people
and just to be nice people
and
you know that's that's really my main
focus is to you know
make sure that when i'm gone more people
happy that i was here
and that they don't show up at the
funeral to make sure i'm really dead
that's it
that's awesome man thank you so much
thank you man
love it great time all right guys this
is somebody that you are going to want
to dive into in a big way you're going
to want to learn as much as you can you
are definitely going to want to start by
reading his book wake up happy which is
the perfect title he talks about
happiness is not a test that you take
once and then it's done it's this
ongoing pursuit and the real
way that he talks about it from
neurochemistry to
all of the truths of the way that life
is going to knock you sideways and
you've got to find a way to recalibrate
and balance and he talks about
all the different steps and things that
you can do and take to actually find
that path to happiness and actually be
somebody who wakes up happy and somebody
who encounters a negative situation and
has the
tools the things that he repeats in his
head the framework to view the world
that will actually help get you back on
track
it is super powerful you would love it
watch his induction into the hall of
fame speech it is him in a nutshell from
both the just
joy of life to loving the sound that
another grown man makes when you tackle
him and he
you hear the breath escaping his body
it's hilarious you have to hear it it's
an amazing story and guys you can join
michael on sunday february 5th as nfl on
fox cover super bowl 51 live from
houston anytime this man is live i'm
trying to be there see it watch it
because he does everything with joy and
authenticity and for those of you who
are about to write me and say you never
said what the other thing was that he
mentioned that's so powerful for an
entrepreneur and it's authenticity and
this guy has it from top to bottom and
everything that he does and i will vouch
for him on camera off camera it's
exactly the same person and that's so
cool
thank you guys so much for being on the
show michael
thank you
thank you guys until next time my
friends if you haven't already be sure
to follow at tom bilyew and at
impact theory that's the new bad boy
check it out join us thank you guys so
much and until next time be legendary my
friends take care
well done thank you so much
[Applause]
you